---
title: Pivotal Elastic Runtime v1.5.0.0 Release Notes
---

## Changes since v1.4.0.0:

## Elastic Runtime

### New Features

#### Default Stack: Trusty 14.04

The lucid64 stack that has been part of Pivotal Cloud Foundry Elastic Runtime for several years as the root file system for containers reached end of support for security fixes on April 29th, 2015 by Canonical. Developers or Operators will need to take action to ensure existing applications migrate to using the new stack.

Lucid64 is now no longer an option as the default stack for Pivotal Cloud Foundry Elastic Runtime. The default will be cflinuxfs2 derived from Ubuntu Trusty 14.04. The lucid64 stack is however still available as one of the non-default options when choosing your app stack.

##### What do you need to do?

If you have an application or app as a service running on Pivotal Cloud Foundry, ensure that your application works when run with the new stack and the corresponding new buildpacks. We recommend using a blue/green deployment strategy to ensure there is no down time for the app. Simply running the following command will result in a small amount of down time as old instances are stopped and the app is restaged with the new stack.

	cf push app-name -s cflinuxfs2

If you have custom buildpacks, you need to ensure that your buildpacks work when run with the new stack.

##### List of buildpacks that now support cflinuxfs2:

* Java buildpack
* NodeJS buildpack
* PHP buildpack
* Go buildpack
* Python buildpack
* Ruby buildpack
* Static buildpack

<b>Known issue: For apps that use native compiled binaries, when the stack is changed, the app may fail to start. If this occurs, the current work around is to delete the app and then push the app again.</b>

#### Diego-beta Tile and Windows 2012 stack 

(link to Ben's doc?)

#### Security Configuration of Runtime

This new section allows configuration of security settings for your Pivotal Cloud Foundry Elastic Runtime components, such as HAProxy, Router, and the DEAs, to ensure that your system meets expected security standards.

There are several checkboxes in this section which serve to adjust the level of security for your system. One checkbox allows you to disable all non-HTTPS traffic to HAProxy as well as turning on the secure flag for the VCAP ID cookies generated by the Router. This will result in any plain HTTP requests to any system components or applications on your Pivotal Cloud Foundry system (to port 80) to be rejected. Because the VCAP ID cookies are made secure, it will also disable session "stickiness" on port 80 traffic for those cookies.

There is also a checkbox in this section which existed in previous versions of Elastic Runtime tile, which enables trusting self-signed SSL certificates, if you decide to use them. Enabling this will tell your Pivotal Cloud Foundry system to trust a self-signed certificate that you either configured in the HAProxy SSL Certificate field or that you used for your own external load-balancer. 

The final checkbox was introduced to allow the use of micro-services, such as for the Spring Cloud Services tile. If enabled, this checkbox enables each container in your DEAs to access their host IP, thereby allowing cross-container traffic within each DEA. Note that this should only be enabled if you trust all of the application workloads within each DEA to not interfere with each other.

Also in this section are fields which allow setting of the HAProxy SSL certificate, HAProxy SSL ciphers, and Router SSL ciphers. The HAProxy SSL certificate field is now an optional field as of 1.5. You do not need to provide a certificate if you are using an external load-balancer instead of Cloud Foundry HAProxy. The cipher fields are also optional, and will use default Cloud Foundry cipher sets unless you enter your own.

#### Other Runtime Features

##### S3-Compatible Filestore Configuration

OpenStack allows for use of an external filestore that is compatible with Amazon's AWS S3 buckets. You can now choose whether you want to deploy Pivotal Elastic Runtime using an internal filestore or an external S3-compatible bucket, whether it is hosted by AWS or Openstack.

If using an external filestore, you can configure the URL endpoint of your S3-compatible filestore under the File Storage Config section. For example, if you are using AWS S3, you can keep this field configured with the default value https://s3.amazonaws.com. Note that this default points to US East region.

#### Improved MySQL Service
MySQL, used by Notifications, Autoscaling, and Apps Manager, ... explain switchboard + improved failure recovery

#### API/cf CLI
* 

#### Improved stability
* 

#### Services API
* 

#### Misc
* 

### Bug Fixes
* Fixed 

## UAA and Login Server
### New Features
#### UAA and Login Server are now merged into one instance.
* 

## Logging, Analytics and Metrics
### New Features

* 

### Component Features And Bug Fixes
* Numerous general system fixes.

### Bug Fixes

* Bug fixed 

## Buildpacks

##### Static buildpack

A new buildpack was added.

### New Features

* 

## Security - CVE fixes have been implemented since v1.4.0.0 and released via security patches.

* 

